Pending Tasks for GNOME Video Arcade

This is a list of outstanding tasks that need to be completed before
GNOME Video Arcade can reach version 1.0.  These are also good starting
points for contributing to GNOME Video Arcade.

Suggestions are always welcome.  You can email me directly or file an
enhancement request at:

  https://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=gnome-video-arcade


                              - Matthew Barnes <mbarnes@redhat.com>


- The gallery page in Properties.

  This is the #1 blocker for version 1.0, and I've been indecisive about
  it for years now.  In addition to searching for the usual locally installed
  content that every other front-end supports, I'd also like for it to fetch
  images from online resources such as arcade-history.com, arcadeflyers.com,
  and maws.mameworld.info.  Downloaded images should be cached locally as a
  web browser would, complete with a tunable size constraint and automatic
  removal of expired content.

  I'm unsure of what the user interface should look like.  The simpler the
  better.  Perhaps just an image and a "Next" button.  Other features to
  consider are zooming and a full-screen slideshow mode (might be neat in
  combination with the streamed music).

  A GIO-based solution is preferred over adding more library dependencies,
  but that's not a hard requirement.


- Once the gallery feature is complete, considering adding an optional
  in-game screen capture to the game list tooltip.  Add a preferences
  checkbox under "Game List" to turn this on or off:

      [ ] Show a screen capture in the game's pop-up bubble


- Support starting games from a saved state (<F7> key in MAME).  The user
  interface should look similar to the Recorded Games window, showing the
  corresponding "save position" key and allowing the user to add a custom
  description of the save state.  Also explain how to save and restore
  states in MAME via the <F7> and <Shift+F7> keys.

  Obviously this would override the "Restore previous state when starting
  a game" preference.


- Update the user documentation and images.  In particular, the section on
  searching is badly out of date.


- Get a new logo.  Something Tango-compliant.

